Sourcegraph 3.17 release blog post (#1085)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2020/announcing-sourcegraph-3.17.md

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.17: Faster and automatic precise code intelligence, preview of code insights, and AND/OR queries for searching file contents"
author: Adam Herzog
publishDate: 2020-06-20T10:00-07:00
tags: [
  blog
]
slug: sourcegraph-3.17
heroImage: /blog/3.17-release-blog-img.jpg
published: true
---

Explore, navigate, and better understand all code, everywhere, faster with Sourcegraph Universal Code Search. Uber, Yelp, Nutanix, Tinder, and other enterprises rely on Sourcegraph to improve developer productivity and manage large-scale code changes.

<div style="padding-left: 2rem">

[**🧠 Faster and automatic precise code intelligence**](#faster-and-automatic-precise-code-intelligence)<br />
Precise code intelligence is now 35% faster than in 3.16. Automatic code intelligence (🧪 experimental feature) will bring precise results to more repositories faster.

[**📊 Product preview: Code insights**](#product-preview-code-insights)<br />
Help developers be more productive and do their jobs better by aggregating data in Sourcegraph.

[**💻 Sourcegraph developer features**](#sourcegraph-developer-features)<br />

> Expanding AND/OR queries to all search modes, updating the Gitolite exclude pattern, and improving debugging.

Author: ```suggestion
Introducing AND/OR queries for searching file contents, updating the Gitolite exclude pattern, and improving debugging.
```

Currently, a repository will need 50 navigation events (hovers, jump to definition, find references) to trigger the auto-indexing procedure. We are continually tuning these heuristics to bring precise results to more repositories faster.

## Product preview: code insights

TODO: Felix will make a video

The Sourcegraph developer team is prototyping code insights, which will help you answer questions you have about your code, including: 

   * [Code smells](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CodeSmell.html) over time
   * Languages used at the organization
   * Library adoption
   * Test coverage over time
   * Tracking a migration
   * Security anti-patterns

Code insights helps developers be more productive and do their jobs better, and brings the data we have in Sourcegraph together.

We want to understand the bigger questions you have about your code base, and would love to hear from you! Please reach out at [feedback@sourcegraph.com](mailto:feedback@sourcegraph.com) to talk to us.

## Sourcegraph developer features

> ### AND/OR query improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Introducing AND and OR operators for code search
```

Or simply "Introducing operators for code search", or something like that, since this is an initial feature release.

Author: "AND and OR" reads a bit funny - could we do "Introducing AND/OR operators for code search?"

Reviewer: Sounds good :-)

> ### AND/OR query improvements

Author: ```suggestion
### Introducing AND/OR operators for code search?
```

> TODO: Rijnard is making a video

Author: ```suggestion
<div class="container my-4 video-embed embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9 ">
    <iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Iye0yZVr1Ro?autoplay=0&amp;cc_load_policy=0&amp;start=0&amp;end=0&amp;loop=0&amp;controls=1&amp;modestbranding=0&amp;rel=0" allowfullscreen="" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" frameborder="0"></iframe>
</div>
```

> In [Sourcegraph 3.15](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/sourcegraph-3.15#experimental-andor-operators-for-search-contents), we introduced AND and OR queries for file content for regexp and structural search modes as an experimental option. Sourcegraph 3.17 now introduces AND and OR queries for all modes (including the newly added literal search mode) and is on by default for all instances (no longer considered experimental).

Reviewer: @adaaaam re comment above, we should be consistent with `AND/OR` vs `AND` and `OR` here then

Author: agreed!

Reviewer 2: Fixed in the copy change I just pushed.

> In [Sourcegraph 3.15](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/sourcegraph-3.15#experimental-andor-operators-for-search-contents), we introduced AND and OR queries for file content for regexp and structural search modes as an experimental option. Sourcegraph 3.17 now introduces AND and OR queries for all modes (including the newly added literal search mode) and is on by default for all instances (no longer considered experimental).

Author: ```suggestion
In [Sourcegraph 3.15](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/sourcegraph-3.15#experimental-andor-operators-for-search-contents), we introduced AND and OR queries for file content for regexp and structural search modes as an experimental option. Sourcegraph 3.17 now introduces AND/OR queries for all modes (including the newly added literal search mode) and is on by default for all instances (no longer considered experimental).
```

> The AND/OR query improvements in this release only work for file content, but hierarchical AND/OR queries that include filters are on our product roadmap.

Author: ```suggestion
The AND/OR query improvements in this release only work for searching file content, but hierarchical AND/OR queries that include filters are on our product roadmap.
```

Reviewer: ```
Initial support for query operators work for searching file contents. Operators for filters like `repo:` and `file:` will be supported in upcoming releases.
```
Avoids restrictive words like 'only' and doesn't reference 'hierarchical', which is a fuzzy way to describe the planned improvements. We should only use hierarchical if we define it first, I don't think it's a term of art.

Author: ```suggestion
Initial support for these query operators is to search file contents. Operators for filters like `repo:` and `file:` will be supported in upcoming releases.
```

> The AND/OR query improvements in this release only work for file content, but hierarchical AND/OR queries that include filters are on our product roadmap.

Author: ```suggestion
Initial support for these query operators is for searching file contents. Operators for filters like `repo:` and `file:` will be supported in upcoming releases.
```

---

> title: "Sourcegraph 3.17: Faster and automatic precise code intelligence, preview of code insights, and AND/OR queries for all search modes"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Sourcegraph 3.17: Faster and automatic precise code intelligence, preview of code insights, and AND/OR queries for searching file contents"
```

Don't feel very strong about this, but think it reads better and also explains it's for file content.

Author: i think that's a great improvement! committing the suggestion now and will update later in the post

> author: Adam Herzog

Author: @christinaforney who should be the author? just put myself but maybe you or @poojaj-tech?

Reviewer 3: I have less context on release 3.17 @adaaaam so likely you or @christinaforney.

publishDate: 2020-06-20T10:00-07:00
tags: [
  blog
]
slug: sourcegraph-3.17
heroImage: /blog/3.17-release-blog-img.jpg
published: true
---

Explore, navigate, and better understand all code, everywhere, faster with Sourcegraph Universal Code Search. Uber, Yelp, Nutanix, Tinder, and other enterprises rely on Sourcegraph to improve developer productivity and manage large-scale code changes.

<div style="padding-left: 2rem">

[**🧠 Faster and automatic precise code intelligence**](#faster-and-automatic-precise-code-intelligence)<br />

> Precise code intelligence is now 35% faster than in 3.16. Automatic code intelligence (🧪 experimental feature) will bring precise results to more repositories faster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Precise code intelligence is now 35% faster than in 3.16. Automatic precise code intelligence (🧪 experimental feature) will bring precise results to more repositories faster.
```

[**📊 Product preview: Code insights**](#product-preview-code-insights)<br />

> Help developers be more productive and do their jobs better by aggregating data in Sourcegraph.

Reviewer 2: I am worried this sentence will be interpreted incorrectly that we will be tracking data about developers. I want to focus the data aggregation on the code. 
```suggestion
Understand high-level patterns of your code, and track code changes over time by aggregating data in Sourcegraph.
```

Author: great suggestion - totally agree

[**💻 Sourcegraph developer features**](#sourcegraph-developer-features)<br />
Introducing AND/OR queries for searching file contents, updating the Gitolite exclude pattern, and improving debugging.

[**🛠 Sourcegraph admin features**](#sourcegraph-admin-features)<br />
Easier alerting configuration, repository permission syncing on by default, and notifications when Sourcegraph is out-of-date.

[**📝 Changelog**](#changelog)<br />
Every detail that changed in this release

[**🎖️ Thank you**](#thank-you)<br />
Sourcegraph couldn't be what it is without the community.

</div>

**Deploy or upgrade:** [Local](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/#quickstart-guide) | [AWS](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-aws) | [DigitalOcean](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/sourcegraph?action=deploy&refcode=48dfb3ccb51c) | [Kubernetes cluster](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph)

<div class="alert alert-info">
  <p>
    <strong>LEARN MORE:</strong><br />
    <a href="https://info.sourcegraph.com/online-meetup-june25?utm_source=blog">
      Online meetup: Sourcegraph 3.17 - Thursday, June 21 at 10AM PDT
    </a>
  </p>
  </div>

---

> ## Faster and automatic precise code intelligence

Reviewer 4: There were a few edits that no longer match the shared text in one of the blog posts. I've started to match them up here - could we make sure that the text isn't too different before submission? Feel free to make edits in this PR and merge along with the announcement:

https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/pull/1086

Author: it's okay if the text in the blog posts don't match 100% - do you have an example of what you're referring to?

Reviewer 2: I think I resolved this. See incoming changes.

### 35% faster than in 3.16, 50% faster than in 3.15

> Precise code intelligence queries are now faster. The following chart shows the relative performance of our [integration test suite](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/tree/5f51043ad2130a1acdcfca8b969f907cd03a220d/internal/cmd/precise-code-intel-test) over the newly released Sourcegraph 3.17 instances, Sourcegraph 3.16 (around 35% faster in 3.17), and Sourcegraph 3.15 (around 50% faster in 3.17).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Precise code intelligence queries are now faster. The following chart shows the relative performance of our [integration test suite](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/tree/5f51043ad2130a1acdcfca8b969f907cd03a220d/internal/cmd/precise-code-intel-test) over the newly released Sourcegraph 3.15 (around 50% faster in 3.17), Sourcegraph 3.16 (around 35% faster in 3.17), and newly released Sourcegraph 3.17 instances.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Precise code intelligence queries are now faster. The following chart shows the relative performance of our [integration test suite](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/tree/5f51043ad2130a1acdcfca8b969f907cd03a220d/internal/cmd/precise-code-intel-test) over Sourcegraph 3.15 (around 50% faster in 3.17), Sourcegraph 3.16 (around 35% faster in 3.17), and the newly released Sourcegraph 3.17 instances.
```

To see this experiment in action, pick a Go repository hosted on GitHub that has yet to be discovered. Possibly something useful with a passionate cult-following. Then, visit that repository in sourcegraph.com/search. After navigating through the code base after a while, you should see the hover tooltips and definition results become more accurate.

Currently, a repository will need 50 navigation events (hovers, jump to definition, find references) to trigger the auto-indexing procedure. We are continually tuning these heuristics to bring precise results to more repositories faster.

## Product preview: code insights

> TODO: Felix will make a video

Author: @felixfbecker reminder to make the video :) you can send to me and i can upload to youtube to embed here

Author: @felixfbecker removing this placeholder text but will insert the video once it's ready

Reviewer 2: Added :)

The Sourcegraph developer team is prototyping code insights, which will help you answer questions you have about your code, including: 

   * [Code smells]([https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CodeSmell.html](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CodeSmell.html)) over time
   * Languages used at the organization
   * Library adoption
   * Test coverage over time
   * Tracking a migration
   * Security anti-patterns

Code insights helps developers be more productive and do their jobs better, and brings the data we have in Sourcegraph together.

We want to understand the bigger questions you have about your code base, and would love to hear from you! Please reach out at [feedback@sourcegraph.com](mailto:feedback@sourcegraph.com) to talk to us.

## Sourcegraph developer features

### AND/OR query improvements

> TODO: Rijnard is making a video

Author: @rvantonder reminder to make the video :) you can send to me and i can upload to youtube to embed here

Reviewer: Working on it, will be ready in a couple of hours.

Reviewer: Sent on slack

In [Sourcegraph 3.15](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/sourcegraph-3.15#experimental-andor-operators-for-search-contents), we introduced AND and OR queries for file content for regexp and structural search modes as an experimental option. Sourcegraph 3.17 now introduces AND and OR queries for all modes (including the newly added literal search mode) and is on by default for all instances (no longer considered experimental).

The AND/OR query improvements in this release only work for file content, but hierarchical AND/OR queries that include filters are on our product roadmap.

### Gitolite exclude pattern

The Gitolite `exclude` setting in the [Gitolite external service configuration](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service/gitolite#configuration) now supports a regular expression through the pattern field. Adding this regex support improves Gitolite’s pattern matching abilities.

This is consistent with how we exclude in other external services, and is a replacement for the deprecated configuration. [#11403](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/11403) 

```

> TODO: Example config

Author: @christinaforney who can help with this example config?

```

<br />&nbsp;
### Improved debugging experience

A unified set of container metrics, compatible across both Kubernetes and Docker Compose deployment types,  provides the following information about containers through Grafana dashboards and alerting in both deployment types:

> ADD SCREENSHOTS - POSSIBLE TO STACK VERTICALLY TO IMPROVE READABILITY?

Author: @christinaforney do you have the original version of that screenshot? i can edit it to stack vertically

Reviewer 2: I do not. I believe @slimsag or @bobheadxi added this screenshot.

Author: @slimsag @bobheadxi removing this placeholder text with a version of the screenshot. please send me the high-res version so i can update

Permission syncing are now on by default for GitHub, Bitbucket Server, and GitLab for any integration that is using permissions. Documentation: [https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/repo/permissions#background-permissions-syncing](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/repo/permissions#background-permissions-syncing)

Background permissions syncing becomes the default method to sync permissions from code hosts. Please [read our documentation for things to keep in mind before upgrading](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/repo/permissions#background-permissions-syncing). [#10972](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/10972)

### Notifications when Sourcegraph is out of date

Sourcegraph now shows update notifications to site admins (at 1 month out-of-date), and then to users (at 4 months out-of-date). This will help keep your Sourcegraph instance current with the latest bug fixes and security updates, as well as new features and functionalities. This will also ensure that you don’t run into issues due to running on a stale version.

These notifications start out as subtle informational alerts, and at 6+ months out-of-date, they will appear as red dismissible banners:

> SCREENSHOT

Author: @christinaforney do you also have the high-res version of this screenshot?

Reviewer 2: Same as above, we will need to get this from @slimsag or @bobheadxi

Author: @slimsag @bobheadxi removing this placeholder text with a version of the screenshot. please send me the high-res version so i can update

- When more than 200+ repository revisions in a search are unindexed (very rare), the remaining repositories are reported as missing instead of Sourcegraph issuing e.g. several thousand unindexed search requests which causes system slowness and ultimately times out - ensuring searches are still fast even if there are indexing issues on a deployment of Sourcegraph. This does not apply if `index:no` is present in the query.

### Removed

- Automatic syncing of Campaign webhooks for Bitbucket Server. [#10962](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/10962)
- The `blacklist` configuration option for Gitolite is DEPRECATED and will be removed in 3.19. Use `exclude.pattern` instead.

The [changelog for this and previous releases](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#{VERSION}) is available on GitHub.

## Thank you

A big thank you to everyone who contributed to Sourcegraph since the last release!

<!--

>   Generate the list of people who contributed to this release (created issues) by copying the output from bin/generate_contributors.go:

Author: @christinaforney could you help generate this?

Reviewer 2: Yes, done (commit coming shortly)

</div>

In [Sourcegraph 3.15](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/sourcegraph-3.15#experimental-andor-operators-for-search-contents), we introduced AND and OR queries for file content for regexp and structural search modes as an experimental option. Sourcegraph 3.17 now introduces AND/OR queries for all modes (including the newly added literal search mode) and is on by default for all instances (no longer considered experimental).

Initial support for query operators is for searching file contents. Operators for filters like `repo:` and `file:` will be supported in upcoming releases.

### Gitolite exclude pattern

The Gitolite `exclude` setting in the [Gitolite external service configuration](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service/gitolite#configuration) now supports a regular expression through the pattern field. Adding this regex support improves Gitolite’s pattern matching abilities.

This is consistent with how we exclude in other external services, and is a replacement for the deprecated configuration. [#11403](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/11403) 

```

TODO: Example config

```

> <br />

Author: ```suggestion

```

To see this experiment in action, pick a Go repository hosted on GitHub that has yet to be discovered. Possibly something useful with a passionate cult-following. Then, visit that repository in sourcegraph.com/search. After navigating through the code base after a while, you should see the hover tooltips and definition results become more accurate.

Currently, a repository will need 50 navigation events (hovers, jump to definition, find references) to trigger the auto-indexing procedure. We are continually tuning these heuristics to bring precise results to more repositories faster.

## Product preview: code insights

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

To see this experiment in action, pick a Go repository hosted on GitHub that has yet to be discovered. Possibly something useful with a passionate cult-following. Then, visit that repository in sourcegraph.com/search. After navigating through the code base after a while, you should see the hover tooltips and definition results become more accurate.

Currently, a repository will need 50 navigation events (hovers, jump to definition, find references) to trigger the auto-indexing procedure. We are continually tuning these heuristics to bring precise results to more repositories faster.

## Product preview: code insights

> TODO: Felix will make a video

Author: ```suggestion
```

Initial support for query operators is for searching file contents. Operators for filters like `repo:` and `file:` will be supported in upcoming releases.

### Gitolite exclude pattern

The Gitolite `exclude` setting in the [Gitolite external service configuration](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service/gitolite#configuration) now supports a regular expression through the pattern field. Adding this regex support improves Gitolite’s pattern matching abilities.

This is consistent with how we exclude in other external services, and is a replacement for the deprecated configuration.

```json

TODO: Example config

```

### Improved debugging experience

A unified set of container metrics, compatible across both Kubernetes and Docker Compose deployment types,  provides the following information about containers through Grafana dashboards and alerting in both deployment types:

> ADD SCREENSHOTS - POSSIBLE TO STACK VERTICALLY TO IMPROVE READABILITY?

Author: ```suggestion
![admin-notifications](/blogposts/admin_notifications_sourcegraph.png "admin-notifications")
```

Permission syncing are now on by default for GitHub, Bitbucket Server, and GitLab for any integration that is using permissions. Documentation: [https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/repo/permissions#background-permissions-syncing](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/repo/permissions#background-permissions-syncing)

Background permissions syncing becomes the default method to sync permissions from code hosts. Please [read our documentation for things to keep in mind before upgrading](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/repo/permissions#background-permissions-syncing). [#10972](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/10972)

### Notifications when Sourcegraph is out of date

Sourcegraph now shows update notifications to site admins (at 1 month out-of-date), and then to users (at 4 months out-of-date). This will help keep your Sourcegraph instance current with the latest bug fixes and security updates, as well as new features and functionalities. This will also ensure that you don’t run into issues due to running on a stale version.

These notifications start out as subtle informational alerts, and at 6+ months out-of-date, they will appear as red dismissible banners:

> SCREENSHOT

Author: ```suggestion
![admin-notifications](/blogposts/container_monitoring_sourcegraph.png "admin-notifications")
```
